A high level overview of why as developers
we might care about database and
what the kind of basic steps are,
our first steps, as it were,
from zero to awesome this,
using Observable Plot.
And we have gotten to some hands-on
practice by working through those three
projects that led us through the core
concepts of features in the dataset and
mapping those two encoding
channels in the visualization.
So visual properties of the output
visualization using scale functions.
We've also talked about aggregating
data with group transforms and
splitting data up with faceting, so that
we can answer the questions we care about.
Sometimes those are higher level and
needs smushing together,
and sometimes those are lower level and
need separating apart.
And we took a look at adding some
interactivity to our charts to allow our
users some flexibility with exactly
what data they're looking at.
We also just saw some examples,
some patterns that we can use for
taking our visualizations made
with Plot to the rest of the web.
Whether that be through Observable
notebooks, which we can share, or publish,
or embed in different places.
Or using Plot as a standalone library,
either in Vanilla JS, or
in React, or
other frameworks we can use it in as well.
And now, just to pull things together and
wrap up, let's go through some of
the takeaways, hopefully,
that we are leaving today's workshop with.
And some next steps,
things that we can explore to continue
our journey into the world of data vis.
So we saw that data visualization,
as evidenced by some of the sample
data that we looked at in our project,
can help us as web developers.
To get a better understanding of and
improve not only our development workflows
by looking at how much time we're
wasting waiting for CI tests to pass.
Also our designs, our user interfaces,
the focus that we're putting on the user
experience for, let's say, folks who
are dialing in to our sites from different
devices, with different resolutions.
So by visualizing that data,
we can narrow in on,
[LAUGH] no resolution pun intended there,
we can narrow in on
exactly which devices or
viewports are of particular
interest to our users.
We also saw how it can help us get a sense
of sight performance by looking at, for
example, our log data.
And by having those interactive interfaces
to our visualization, we can make
it flexible so that we can really drill
down into the details we care about.
And of course,
there are tons of other applications.
We heard about some ways that folks are
using data vis in the chat earlier, and
in person.
And so again, if there
are applications that you have seen or
are now thinking of for your day to day as
a developer, please share them with us.
But there are so many different ways
that visualization can be handy.
They go above and beyond just my boss
asked me to put this chart in a dashboard
[LAUGH], although that is also a totally
legit reason to care about data vis.
We saw how to wrangle and visualize
our data with some built-in JavaScript
functionality, like array filter and array
map, super handy for basic data wrangling.
We saw lots of features
of Observable Plot.
And again, you can check out
the documentation to dive into all of
the other features that we
didn't get time to cover.
And to look up the API reference for
the different syntax and
features that we saw today, because who
wants to keep all that in your head?
That's what documentation is for.
We also saw how to use Observable
notebooks with their reactive runtime and
the built-in inputs that they offer for
interactivity.
And really quickly at the end,
we saw a couple examples
of how we can recreate that interactivity
in other environments such as React.
And so as we walk away from this course,
I hope we'll be thinking about kind of
the meta level of creating visualizations.
And what we need to be asking ourselves or
what we need to be paying attention
to as we do visualization work.
So we need to be, first of all, thinking
about what questions we wanna answer, and
then thinking about how
to wrangle our data.
So how to filter it down or reshape it,
to put it in the most convenient
format for answering those questions.
We need to think about how we are
visualizing that data in the sense of what
types of plots we're making.
Are we making an aggregated plot that
perform some grouping on our data?
Are we looking at individual
data points on, let's say,
a dot plot or
a cell plot as we saw before?
And there are some other marks that
you can use if you dig into the plot
documentation, things like line plots or
area plots.
So you can read more about
those different types of marks,
these different types of plots, and which
use cases they might be a good fit for.
We also need to think about
how we're scaling from our
data values to our display values,
so in other words,
from the input domain of our data space
to the output range of our display space.
And we need to, again, think about
whether or not it makes sense based on
the particular questions we're trying
to answer to aggregate data together or
facet and split it apart or not, right?
Sometimes just the default is actually
what we need to answer our questions.
So these are some of the things
that we need to think about.
And we also wanna think about in
cases where we are intending this
visualization for third party users.
What inputs or interactivity might
help them get faster answers to their
questions if we don't know exactly
what those questions are gonna be?
So how can I expose those controls
to my users so that they can get
the most useful visualization for
their particular question?
So there are some further reading
links in the materials, which,
again are all available in
these Observable notebooks.
So there are some posts from the
Observable team as well as the Tableau and
Netflix teams on kind of high
level data vis concepts and
why developers should care about them.
So take a look at some of those if
you're curious on digging more into
the high level of data vis.
And then in terms of the lower level
of how we're actually building these,
lots of great resources for you.
So the Observable team that's behind
pPot has made some great resources.
There are cheatsheets available that you
can either use as observable notebooks,
with interactive little planners,
as it were,
so you can figure out the best plot
syntax that works for your situation.
Or you can print them out as PDFs if
you're into having a physical cheatsheet
next to you as you're
doing your database work.
There are a lot of introductory notebooks,
there are some video tutorials
that the team has done.
So if you wanna get more in depth,
you can check those out.
And, of course, there is the full
API documentation on GitHub.
There are some other Frontend Masters
courses that are great follow ups
to these first steps
that we've taken today.
So again, the D3 database courses
that Shirley Wu has put together
are in the learning path,
Data Visualization with D3.js.
So plot and D3 kind of complement each
other, where plot is really nice for
that kind of high level quick
exploratory data visualization,
D3 is a really great kind
of follow up to that.
Let's say once you've got the basic idea
of what data you wanna concentrate on and
what data you want to highlight, you
can do that in plot to figure out those
basics, do that exploratory analysis.
And then, let's say, transition to D3 for
a more customized kind of
bespoke fancy animation,
lots of special interaction effects,
things like that.
Visualization that you can create after
having explored what the answers
are to your questions through Plot.
So Plot and
D3 really go nicely hand in hand.
Again, they're from the same creator,
they're intended for different use cases.
So after playing around the Plot for
a while,
if you're curious about going down
to a lower level visualization API,
check out D3.js, some great courses
on Frontend Masters there as well.
There are also some great data vis
courses available on Observable from
the University of Washington.
There's a great series from the Observable
team about time series data specifically.
This is kind of a special case of
databases, where there are certain
considerations that you might not have if
you're dealing with non-time based data.
So highly recommend
checking out that series.
And there are a lot of other tutorials and
examples and
other resources available around
the Observable ecosystem.
Whether you use Observable or not,
there's a lot of really great data
vis examples and
content that you can find there.
And there's also a great conference
called Outlier that has some excellent
past talk recordings that dig into all
kinds of different aspects of data vis.
So take a look at those if you
enjoy the video learning format and
you wanna watch some really great talks
about data vis from some of the folks
who do it all day, every day,
and know the ins and outs.
So that is it for our workshop today.
Huge thank you to everybody for
attending and watching.
And huge thanks to team Observable for
building all these great tools and
for helping out with pulling
this workshop together.
Huge thank you to Mark and
the whole Frontend Masters team for
producing this great series and
these great videos.
And if anybody wants to reach out, you can
find me on Twitter, you can find me on
Observable, you can find me on Github,
around all of the places.
So yes, if you have a questions or
you wanna show off on Twitter
the amazing visualizations you've made,
please do, please tag, and I look
forward to seeing what everybody makes.
Thank you so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]